+++
draft = false
date  = 2023-02-03

title    = "Sonos speakers are actually pretty good"
subtitle = "It was a Christmas gift, but I use them more than my wife..."

toc = false
+++

Last Christmas I got my wife a couple of Sonos One speakers so she wouldn't
have to listen to music through her phone's tiny speaker. She does have a good
pair of headphones, and the audio quality of AirPods is decent enough I'm in no
hurry to replace any of those. However, when we listen to music together over a
game of _Scrabble_ or _Bananagrams,_ iPhone or iPad speakers simply won't cut
it.

I've seen some people obsessed with Sonos, to the point they would collect
speakers made by the company. Considering their price tag, I could only picture
the company as the "Apple of speakers." While that view hasn't exactly changed,
the fact you can "extend" your speaker setup by adding more Sonos speakers to
it got to me. _If you have a home theater setup,_ you might say this is as
simple as wiring more speakers to your receiver, which could all come from
different manufacturers. Well, we don't have that. We don't even have a TV yet.

## How it works

_Take this with a grain of salt_ since the only speakers I have currently are
second generation Sonos One speakers. Once you get a speaker or speaker set
from Sonos, you've started what can be called a _Sonos system,_ and you can
combine multiple speakers to act as a unified sink for an audio source. That
means with two speakers you've created a stereo pair, and with more you have a
surround sound setup.

This combination of speakers likely has its own rules. For instance, you can
purchase a Sonos Beam or a Sonos Arc, both meant to as a sound bars for a TV
setup, and pair it up with two Sonos One speakers as well as a Sonos Sub or
Sonos Sub Mini for a 5.1 surround sound setup. Plenty of trademarks in that
sentence, right? _One_ contains a pair of tweeter and mid-range drivers,
serving as a... regular speaker, while _Beam_ and _Arc_ feature multiple
speakers each, the latter being this big assembly with angled speakers!

One possible and perhaps even common setup for a home theater is to have a
_Beam_ act as a sound bar for your big TV, a pair of _One_ speakers on stands
at the back for the surround channels, and a _Sub_ or _Sub Mini_ acting as the
subwoofer. If you have a big room or particularly expensive taste, you'd
substitute the _Beam_ for the _Arc,_ perhaps the _One_ for the _Five,_ and the
_Sub Mini_ for the _Sub._ That would set you back over a thousand dollars, for
sure.

Anyway, this is all to say that I don't regret the purchase too much since I
know the speakers I got for my wife, even if we decide not to use them for
music anymore, can be used when the time comes to set up our little home
theater. Let's hope we can afford that by then.

## Spotify and convenience, I guess

My wife used Spotify for quite some time before meeting me. Meanwhile, for the
longest time I just used _mpd_ with _Syncplay_ and _beets_ taking care of
synchronizing my music library across my devices, while most recently using
_Navidrome_ as a self-hosted music streaming service. For whatever reason, she
thought it was cool that I could do that, and ditched Spotify to use my
instance of Navidrome.

Well, she didn't need to complain for me to know it was inconvenient to have to
ask me to download the music she wanted to listen to, and turns out it's much
more complicated to set up Sonos speakers with Navidrome than it is with
Spotify. So I signed us _both_ up for a Spotify Premium account, despite my
personal distaste for the service.

It's good that it's convenient to use, and the music selection nowadays makes
it viable for me to use it as well, missing only a tune or two from the ones
I'd like to put on --- e.g. soundtrack albums from _The Legend of Zelda,_ as
well as the 25th Anniversary Orchestra album. On top of that, there's easy
integration with _Amazon Alexa,_ which I despise, but it makes my wife happy
and content, so I'm not complaining. Happy wife, happy life. I'll admit I also
find it convenient for setting alarms and timers.

## The speakers

I'm no audiophile, but the speakers sound pretty good to me, which I think is
what counts. Spotify streams _lossy audio at 320 Kbps._ Because I wanted to
test my ears (and the speakers), I signed up for a freel trial of Tidal, which
streams _lossless audio at 1411 Kbps._ The differences are _subtle, but they're
there._ Not enough of a difference to make me want to pay for Tidal, at least
not currently.

Also, I got the missus two speakers precisely to make them into a stereo pair
for higher audio quality, or, should she want to, a speaker to put in the
kitchen and one to put in the bedroom. They work very well as a stereo pair,
and while one of the speakers is currently in a position where it loses WiFi
signal from time to time, even one speaker is high enough quality not to be too
concerned and just wait patiently for the other to reconnect.

Listening to _Sweet John_ and _古川本舗_ through the speakers has been a
pleasant experience. There's enough bass and treble to make the music sound
really good, but you can also adjust their levels through the Sonos app.

For now, _these speakers have my seal of approval!_
