+++
draft = false
date  = 2022-07-01

title    = "Some of my thoughts on The Legend of Zelda"
subtitle = "Brief insights into the games I've played from the series"

toc = true
+++

While I don't spend a lot of my time playing video games, there are a few
franchises that will compell me to spend some of my spare hours in front of a
screen (or two). For the most part they are Nintendo franchises, but they also
feature _Kingdom Hearts_ and _Puyo Puyo Tetris._ The series that never fails to
draw me in, however, is _The Legend of Zelda,_ which I'd like to talk about
briefly in this article.

I haven't played all the games in the series, and not all of the ones I've
played I've done so to the end. Someone really special to me is currently
playing through the games in the series, and inspired by that, I thought it
might be nice to write down some of my thoughts on them as they come back to me
--- it's been a good while since I played most of these.

Here they are, in no particular order.

## The Legend of Zelda: The Minish Cap

_The Legend of Zelda: The Minish Cap_ is a Game Boy Advance game released in
2004 in Japan and 2005 in the Americas. The game was developed by Capcom and
Flagship --- an indie game studio from Japan that was dissolved in 2007 ---
with Nintendo acting as an overseer. It was the first game in the series I
played, and it happened completely by chance: the game didn't even belong to
me! The game's art style takes after Wind Waker's, but that seems to show only
in the concept art and box artwork. Story, gameplay, mostly everything else has
nothing to do with it as far as I can tell.

{{< figure
  src="/media/cover-zelda-the-minish-cap.webp"
  link="/media/cover-zelda-the-minish-cap.webp"
  caption="Cover art for _The Legend of Zelda: The Minish Cap_"
>}}

Naturally, the player controls Link, who partners up with Ezlo, a talking hat.
There are these miniature people sometimes called Picori, sometimes Minish. The
item selection in the game is somewhat similar to that of _A Link to the Past,_
though maybe that's just me conflating them since they're both 2D titles.

For a Game Boy Advance game, this is a considerably long game, taking players
an average of [15 and a half hours][howlong-minish] to finish the main part of
the story. Since GBA cartridges can't fit a lot of data, the world map might
feel a little small compared to the one in _ALttP,_ and places are revisited a
few times.

One interesting mechanic in _The Minish Cap_ that could've come back in later
games is the matching of [Kinstones][kinstones]. To summarize it, the player
can collect these semi-circular stones with different "connecting shapes" that
are akin to jigsaw puzzle pieces, and fuse them with a matching counterpart
that belongs to random NPCs, for bonuses and at times to progress with the
story.

Some highlights:

- It's easy to pick the game up, play for a little bit, and pause it, since the
  puzzles and dungeons aren't too complicated or long, with a few exceptions
  here and there --- looking at you, Palace of Winds!
- There's enough challenge and dungeons to go through, unlike what you might
  expect from a portable game, which goes to show you can do a lot with a tiny
  bit of data and a lot of creativity.
- The colorful 2D art style looks really neat! The low resolution of the GBA
  starts to feel like a blessing, as it's given us more colorful pixel art than
  we would've seen otherwise. Thanks, Nintendo!

All in all, _The Minish Cap_ is not a very difficult title to pick up if you
can handle top-down 2D action games, and it is a good introduction to the
franchise as it features many of the characteristics of the portable games that
preceded it (i.e. _Link's Awakening_ and the _Oracle_ games) and of _A Link to
the Past._ It holds a special place in my heart for being my first game in the
series.

_For those interested in playing it,_ it is available for purchase on the Wii U
eShop as a Virtual Console title, and Nintendo 3DS owners who were part of
Nintendo's Ambassadors Program should be able to download it from the 3DS eShop
while it's still up. If you have a GBA, you can also scour eBay for a
cartridge. As far as I know, there are no other _legal_ ways to play it as of
the time of this writing.

[howlong-minish]: https://howlongtobeat.com/game?id=10044
[kinstones]: https://zelda.fandom.com/wiki/Kinstone

## The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess

_The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess_ is a GameCube and Wii game released at
the end of 2006. It was originally meant as a GameCube exclusive, but with the
console's lackluster sales and the imminent launch of the Nintendo Wii
(codename Revolution), Nintendo delayed it for about a year so the game could
be a Wii launch title. It was the last first-party title for the GameCube, and
one of the first for the Wii, making it both the end and start of a console
generation. The game was later remastered in HD for the Wii U.

{{< figure
  src="/media/cover-zelda-twilight-princess.webp"
  link="/media/cover-zelda-twilight-princess.webp"
  caption="Cover art for _The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess HD,_ for the Wii U"
>}}

This might be the only game in the franchise in the beginning of which Link
isn't asleep. Link's an inhabitant of Ordon Village, a tranquil place in
southern Hyrule. He plays with the local kids, helps out in a ranch, and runs
errands for a couple of the other villagers as they are necessary. Sure, the
whole "chosen hero" trope reveals itself to be part of the story, but you're
shown just how monotonous this guy's life is in the beginning in an unbearably
long "tutorial" section.

Once you're past the tutorial section, the game still takes a little while to
pick up, as it needs to introduce you to the game's main mechanic: as this odd
"atmosphere" swallows entire areas of the world, Link turns into a wolf. Yes, a
wolf! You can't quite swing a sword as a wolf, so enjoy the taste of your
enemies as you fight them in that form and put your "wolf instincts" to use
with finding "tears of light" at every area in sections that Nintendo shortened
in the Wii U remaster.

The art style for this game, much like its story, feels very "mature," which is
what fans of the series were asking for since the first GameCube demo of a
Zelda game was shown at E3. Those who like focusing on a game's story will find
this game more jampacked with goodies than other titles, and boy is it long!
[37 and a half hours][howlong-twilight] to finish the main story, roughly; 30
if you're playing the HD remaster.

Here are a few highlights:

- Should appeal to people into mature, darker themed art styles, as opposed to
  the colorful, fantastical direction of most other games in the series. Not my
  cup of tea, but it fits the game's story rather well!
- When you're feeling a lack of variation in the way you play other Zelda
  games, picking this one up and exploring the overworld as a wolf, using some
  of the tools to traverse Hyrule, and galloping around might feel refreshing.
- _Wind Waker_ feels like an adventure, _Twilight Princess_ makes you feel
  badass.

You will feel no shortness of content in _Twilight Princess,_ in fact quite the
opposite if you're not the kind to spend many hours at once on a game, able to
immerse yourself in its story and gameplay. Epic boss fights await you in one
of the most refined Zelda games since _Ocarina of Time._ Wouldn't recommend it
as an introduction to the series due to how much of a time investment it is,
but if you enjoyed a couple other 3D games, this one should appeal to you!

_For those interested in playing it,_ the HD remaster is available for purchase
on the Wii U if you can get your hands on one. If you can get your hands on a
Wii or a Wii U and the Wii version of the game on disc, you should be able to
play it. The Wii can also play the GameCube disc, while the Wii U needs some
clever trickery for that to be possible.

[howlong-twilight]: https://howlongtobeat.com/game?id=10046

## The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time

Released at the end of 1998 for the Nintendo 64, _The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina
of Time_ is a legendary title in the Zelda franchise and in the history of
video games, being the first 3D installment in the series and ranked by many as
the greatest video game title of all time.

{{< figure
  src="/media/cover-zelda-ocarina-of-time.webp"
  link="/media/cover-zelda-ocarina-of-time.webp"
  caption="Cover art for _The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time_"
>}}

After extending and cementing the series' format with _A Link to the Past,_
Nintendo faced the challenge of translating their vision for the series to 3D,
making use of the power of the Nintendo 64. Somehow they pulled it off so well
it became a point of reference for adventure games and for all future games in
the franchise. The hardware limitations affected the size and scope of the
game, but it would take over a decade for fans to get a remake.

Link is a boy living in the Kokiri Forest among the Kokiri, a fairy loving
people composed of kids who canonically never grow up. Truly Neverland-like.
One day, the spirit that protects the forest, the Great Deku Tree, summons Link
and tells him of his fate and Hyrule's. In no time, Link sets out on an quest
to bring together some [maguffins][maguffin] and take them to the Temple of
Time.

As stated before, the game was remade once, in 2011. _The Legend of Zelda:
Ocarina of Time 3D_ is hauled as the definitive edition of _Ocarina of Time,_
addressing a lot of the problems with the original game --- the remake runs at
a smooth 30 fps, for starters --- and giving it such a modern look the Nintendo
3DS release could easily be ported to the Nintendo Switch without need for
major graphical changes.

Noteworthy bullet points:

- This game set the standard for 3D installments in _The Legend of Zelda._
  Future games in the series all took inspiration from it, and you can expect
  few changes in the core game mechanics, as Nintendo likes to innovate without
  restarting from scratch.
- The art style is that of a fantasy world, without feeling too childish and
  without being too dark. It's a good balance that stands between the likes of
  _Twilight Princess_ and _Wind Waker._
- It's a classic game that should be played by everyone! Good for introducing
  players to 3D Zelda.

While shorter than games like _Wind Waker_ and _Twilight Princess,_ _Ocarina of
Time_ still packs quite a bit of content, taking you [roughly 25 hours to
beat][howlong-ocarina] if you're playing the 3D remake. It's a really nice game
that can easily be picked up by a novice player. I remember preordering the
remake and waiting outside in the cold for the game to be delivered. Good
times.

_For those interested in playing it,_ the game is obviously available if you
can get your hands on a Nintendo 64 and original cartridge, but you can also
get yourself a GameCube and try getting a special bonus disc given to those who
preordered _Wind Waker,_ containing _Ocarina of Time_ and _Master Quest_ --- a
more difficult version of the game. That disc should be played on the Wii, but
the game was also released as a Wii Virtual Console title. Oh, it was also a
Wii U Virtual Console title later on, still available for purchase on the eShop
today. Or... you can get the remake for the Nintendo 3DS!

[maguffin]: https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/MacGuffin
[howlong-ocarina]: https://howlongtobeat.com/game?id=10036

## The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening

In 1993, shortly after the release of _A Link to the Past,_ Nintendo released
the first portable _The Legend of Zelda_ game: _The Legend of Zelda: Link's
Awakening,_ for the Game Boy. The game had started as an after hours pet
project that grew into a bit of a club of Nintendo developers. As it gained
shape and was pitched as an official game, more efforts were put into
developing its gameplay and story. The game was ported to the Game Boy Color
under the name _Link's Awakening DX,_ and recently remade for the Nintendo
Switch.

{{< figure
  src="/media/cover-zelda-links-awakening.webp"
  link="/media/cover-zelda-links-awakening.webp"
  caption="Cover art for _The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening,_ for the Nintendo Switch"
>}}

One of the more original and creative installments, _Link's Awakening_ starts
with a cutscene of Link's boat breaking down as he is hit by a storm. Link
falls unconscious, and wakes up to find himself on an island containing a
mountain with a giant egg sitting on top of it. That's it, no Princess Zelda,
no Agahnim, no Ganon, no Triforce. You will see cameos from other Nintendo
games, primarily characters and elements from _Super Mario Bros.,_ but no
classic Zelda appearances --- apparently this was by design!

You might not stop to think about this while playing the game, but the story of
_Link's Awakening_ is quite sad! Play through the game and maybe read or watch
an analysis or two of the story. You'll probably want to play it again with
your newfound respect for its romanticism. I don't want to spoil anything, so
go give it a chance and pay attention to your interactions with the NPCs!

Of note:

- It's a rather short game, being the first portable Zelda and all, [clocking
  at around 14 hours][howlong-awakening] for the main story in the Switch
  remake, and just slightly longer for the original and DX versions.
- The gameplay feels like a natural improvement over _A Link to the Past,_
  which goes to show the developers were passionate about both their projects,
  honing what they had implemented on the SNES.
- While some puzzles or battles aren't immediately obvious, it's a very easy
  game that anybody can pick up and have fun with. It's a great first title,
  though that's more of a rule than an exception with this franchise.

You'd be surprised with how much there is to explore in a seemingly tiny game
like this. Some people criticize the art direction in the Switch remake, but in
my opinion it doesn't take away anything from the game unless you're unable to
take it seriously without Game Boy graphics.

_For those interested in playing it,_ the remake is available for the Switch,
but you can also get _Link's Awakening DX_ for the 3DS as a Virtual Console
title. The original game was made for the Game Boy, with DX being a Game Boy
Color title, in case you can get your hands on those platforms and cartridges.

[howlong-awakening]: https://howlongtobeat.com/game?id=66255

## The Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Ages

Released for the Game Boy Color alongside _Oracle of Seasons_ in early 2001,
_The Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Ages_ was one of two Zelda games developed by
Capcom for the GBC. Rumor has it a third game was planned for the Game Boy
Color, but rather than finish whatever work was put into it at the time, the
company dropped everything to make _The Minish Cap,_ for the Game Boy Advance.

{{< figure
  src="/media/cover-zelda-oracle-of-ages.webp"
  link="/media/cover-zelda-oracle-of-ages.webp"
  caption="Cover art for _The Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Ages_"
>}}

I might be a little spotty on the details, but the gist of the story is that
Nayru, a blue haired singer Link comes across in the beginning of the game,
hides a secret power: she's actually the _oracle of ages,_ able to travel and
control time. Veran, an evil sorceress, naturally covets this power for herself
and one day successfully attains it by possessing Nayru. She proceeds to set
time itself into disarray, affecting entire areas in the present and past.

No, I did not finish this one, I'm afraid. I played a good chunk of it, but not
to the end, sadly. At the time I was playing it on my DSi through... creative
methods. Those methods either stopped working or I found myself a new toy to
fiddle with, which was likely the Nintendo 3DS. It would take another few years
for the _Oracle_ games to be officially released on the platform, so don't
blame me too much. I'll get back to it eventually.

I remember reading somewhere that the main difference between _Ages_ and
_Seasons_ is the fact that the former focuses on puzzles, featuring more or
more interesting content for puzzle lovers compared to the latter title, which
keeps its head on the battles or something to that effect. It's been long
enough I cannot attest to the verisimilitude of such information.

Since I haven't finished this title and my memories of it are hazy at best,
I'll refrain from making a list of highlights. I remember having fun with it,
but not being too keen I would go back immediately. Perhaps a replay of it in
the future will make me update this entry in the list. We'll see!

_For those interested in playing it,_ it is available as a Virtual Console
title for the Nintendo 3DS. Other than that, I think you're looking at getting
yourself a Game Boy Color or... being creative. The kind of creativity that
leads us to wearing an eyepatch, if you catch what I'm saying. Not that I'm
telling you to go and do it, that's between you an your conscience.

## The Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Seasons

Take a look at the above entry, for _Oracle of Ages,_ as the same points apply
here. The one relevant --- or not --- difference here being I didn't play as
much of this one as I did _Ages._

{{< figure
  src="/media/cover-zelda-oracle-of-seasons.webp"
  link="/media/cover-zelda-oracle-of-seasons.webp"
  caption="Cover art for _The Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Seasons_"
>}}

Whereas in _Oracle of Ages_ you have Nayru, who can control time, and Veran,
who covets that power, in _Oracle of Seasons_ you have dancer Din, who holds
power over the seasons, and Onox, who covets and takes over that power. Can
seasons translate into an interesting mechanic, or plot device? I mean, yeah,
but time does sound more interesting, does it not?

One interesting thing to note: there is additional content in each game if
you've finished the other and can access your save data. Something was added to
the 3DS for that, if I'm not mistaken. Look into it if you're interested in
that kind of package deal.

_For those interested in playing it,_ it's also available as a Virtual Console
title for the Nintendo 3DS.

## The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask

Using, with very few differences, _Ocarina of Time_'s engine and assets, _The
Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask_ was released in 2000, also for the Nintendo 64.
Nintendo took roughly 1 year to develop the game, which features a rather
annoying time cycle mechanic that gives the player the chance to follow not
just the rather sinister overarching story, but also catch glimpses at the
lives of the other characters in the game.

{{< figure
  src="/media/cover-zelda-majoras-mask.webp"
  link="/media/cover-zelda-majoras-mask.webp"
  caption="Cover art for _The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask_"
>}}

A young Link's traveling with a young Epona through the woods when he's
attacked by a couple of fairies and a Skull Kid wearing an interesting looking
mask. The encounter ends with Link being turned into a mere Deku scrub.
Skipping a few of the details, Link meets a mysterious mask salesman, who is
really eager to recover the precious mask Skull Kid stole from him. Oh, and the
moon's crashing down on Earth. In 3 days. Enjoy the festival, it comes once a
year!

Beloved by many --- though not as many as _Ocarina of Time_ --- this game takes
a somber tone pretty early on, what with the theme of death and whatnot. It is
argued that _Majora's Mask_ takes you noticeably through the stages of grief as
the player and the characters alike come to realize their mortality and the
futility of their every action before the sheer magnitude of the moon crashing
down on everyone. And just when they thought they would have fun in the
festival!

Nintendo remade the game for the Nintendo 3DS a few years after they did the
same to _Ocarina of Time._ The public outcry in demand for the remake started
even before the release of _Ocarina of Time 3D,_ with entire campaigns going
around on Kickstarter and online petition websites. Everybody was signing it,
not that it accomplished much of anything, as remaking the game just made
commercial sense and would've happened naturally anyway, many would argue.

The remake brought along the same assortment of amenities of the one that came
before it, but made changes that those more fanatic about _Majora's Mask_
denounce rather harshly. I'm not going to elaborate on that too much, but will
mention there's a set of patches made by a community of players who were in a
state of unrest with the situation. [Project Restoration][project-restoration]
is the name.

No, I did not finish this one. In fact I haven't even played a good portion of
it, despite knowing it's not that long a game. The cycling time mechanic really
doesn't appeal to the likes of me, who would rather be out taking my time
exploring than trying my best to catch the little bit of drama I can get from a
character's story on time slot X of day Y. I'll get to it eventually, a certain
someone will guarantee that.

Like with the _Oracle_ games, I'm not going to bother with a list of
highlights, seeing as I can't do the game justice when I haven't finished it.
All in due time, dear reader. All in due time. The special someone I mentioned
in the introduction to this article liked the game quite a bit, so I'm sure I
will too.

_Want to play it?_ Like I said, there's a remake for the Nintendo 3DS. The
Nintendo 64 original was also a Virtual Console title for the Wii and Wii U,
and if you fork over the kind of money Nintendo is asking for the Expansion
Pack of their online subscription service, you can even play it on the Nintendo
Switch. If you have a 3DS or can work some magic to conjure something akin to
one, the remake is well worth your trouble.

[project-restoration]: https://restoration.zora.re/

## The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword

In 2011, Nintendo would throw a publicity campaign for the 25th anniversary of
the _The Legend of Zelda_ series. Among the games released during that campaign
was the highly anticipated _The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword,_ an original
Zelda game for the Nintendo Wii to call its own, seeing as _Twilight Princess_
was a GameCube turned Wii title.

{{< figure
  src="/media/cover-zelda-skyward-sword.webp"
  link="/media/cover-zelda-skyward-sword.webp"
  caption="Cover art for _The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword_"
>}}

Link is training in Skyloft's Knight Academy, to join the ranks of the knights
who patrol and defend the skies. He lives on top of the clouds in Skyloft, an
archipelago of floating islands that his people call home. Similar to how the
Kokiri in _Ocarina of Time_ have fairies that accompany them for life, the
inhabitants of Skyloft have loftwings --- shoebill looking birds they fly on
--- that are spiritually connected to them. The surface that lies beneath the
clouds is off-limits to everyone. That is, until...

Fully utilizing the motion controls that felt lackluster in the previous title,
_Skyward Sword_ was in the minds of franchise fans bound to feel like the most
immersive sword wielding experience ever! The limitations of the Wii remote had
been for the most part addressed by the _Wii Motion Plus_ accessory and the
line of Wii remotes that came with it built into them --- the _Wiimote Plus_
--- so this was for sure going to be the best and most realistic thing ever,
right? Well, the more or less accurate motion controls were there...

Nintendo needed to give meaning to the kind of movements that became possible
with the improved motion controls. Instead of going the admittedly complicated
route of just giving us accurate looking wounds, parrying and the like, _the
sort of motion you perform with the ~~sword~~ controller ties directly into
combat._ The result of such an addition was that combat --- which before was a
good complement to the puzzles the player would find in dungeons --- now had
mindless puzzle elements to them: you can't just cut down an evil carnivorous
plant with your sword, you need to swing it just the right way to slash along
the seam of its mouth, that being its weak spot. Rinse and repeat for all other
enemies.

It's hard to say that Nintendo did not miss the mark with the sort of controls
that governed _Skyward Sword._ Turning every enemy fight into a "find the weak
spot" routine just made players wish to avoid combat altogether. Had this game
come out soon after the Wii's launch, it would've been a compelling pitch for
the novelty of the Wiimote. Instead, it came at the end of the console's
lifecycle, after the waggle-oriented motion controls had been endlessly
ridiculed by Sony and most other video game fans. I'm a fan of motion controls,
believe me, but _Skyward Sword_ is not an example of a good application of
them.

Despite its many flaws, including repetitive backtracking, an empty overworld,
an art style that didn't appeal to many, and the antiquated hardware that
showed its age when connected to anything other than a CRT television, _Skyward
Sword_ is NOT a bad game! It's a fun Zelda experience, even if at times you end
up infuriated by the controls. The dungeons don't fail to entertain, the music
is amazing, and the story is actually interesting.

To point out a few things:

- The watercolor art style is very hit or miss: if you're a fan of watercolor
  art, you're going to love it! If you're not, you'll probably despise it and
  go back to _Twilight Princess._ The style actually allows for interesting
  performance tweaks!
- Shortly after this game came out, _Hyrule Historia_ was released, creating a
  canonical chronology for the games in the series, and placing this at the
  start of it all! Prophetic in nature, the story does seem in accordance with
  such placement.
- The game's soundtrack is entirely orchestrated, and the game was sold with
  the _The Legend of Zelda: 25th Anniversary Orchestra_ CD. Truly a great way
  to celebrate the 25 years of the series. It's been a while, huh?!

The game was ported over to the Nintendo Switch recently, and while maintaining
the Wii assets, the port runs at a stunning 1080p 60fps in docked mode, 720p
60fps in handheld mode. If it had done otherwise without a graphical upgrade,
we would've all been disappointed. The port also features a control mode that
relies on the right analog stick for the sword motion, for those who care not
for the motion controls. Try it out!

_Those tempted to play it_ can of course get it physically for the Wii, get the
Wii game on the Wii U eShop to play in Wii mode, or get the Nintendo Switch
port that was released in 2021. Creative types can also find creative ways to
play the original game in high resolution, if they are so determined.

## The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker

The year is 2002. Nintendo's console of the generation is the GameCube, a more
powerful machine than the massively successful PS2, and they are about to
release _The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker._ In a tech demo at E3, Nintendo
showcased a battle between Link and Ganondorf, both looking like modern
renditions of their _Ocarina of Time_ counterparts. _The Wind Waker_ would look
nothing like that, instead going for a cartoon art direction that caused quite
the divide amongst fans.

{{< figure
  src="/media/cover-zelda-the-wind-waker.webp"
  link="/media/cover-zelda-the-wind-waker.webp"
  caption="Cover art for _The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker_"
>}}

Link is a simple islander, leading a more or less idyllic life with his grandma
and his sister. That is until this huge bird flies over the island and drops
what looks like a girl, who lands in a forest at the top of a mountain. The
chain of events that followed result in Link's sister Aryll being kidnapped by
the giant bird, and Link setting sail with these pirates that turned up, in a
desperate attempt to find and save his sister. The great flooding? A curse?
Ganondorf? Link never asked for any of this, he just wants to save his sister
and come back home.

With cell-shaded visuals and a cartoon art style, it's safe to say the graphics
of _The Wind Waker_ aged far better than would've otherwise more realistic ones
for the time. That much is obvious when comparing the GameCube remakes / ports
on the Wii U: _The Wind Waker HD_ and _Twilight Princess HD._ The former has
stunning visuals enhanced by shaders, and is a great definitive edition of the
game, while the latter feels like a lazy port that could've done with a
graphical upgrade.

This is one of my favorite games in the franchise. I really do like everything
about it: the art style, the music, the story, the sailing, all of it! It's
hard to think this game was overlooked by so many purely due to the way it
looked. The Wii U remake gives more life to the game with the higher
resolution, blur effects, and whatnot. If you ever have the opportunity to play
this game, here's me asking you to do it.

Highlights as usual:

- Sailing through the world, visiting different islands, getting to know the
  layout of the ones you've visited, and exploring potentially uncharted lands
  makes this feel like the kind of adventure you'd wish to embark on as a kid.
- The art style stood the test of time and aged rather well, still looking
  amazing to this day. The Wii U remake is one of the best looking games I've
  played to date, and the music was reworked as well using higher quality
  samples.
- There's plenty of content to explore, with a few surprises awaiting you along
  the course of the story. The remake will take you [on average 25 and a half
  hours][howlong-waker].

To me, this is seriously a masterpiece of a game, and I won't ever be able to
do it justice by writing at length about it. I invite you to see it for
yourself, and if you can, play the Wii U remake as it comes with upgraded
visuals and quality of life improvements.

_If you feel inclined to play it,_ the game is available for the GameCube,
which you can get or be "creative" about, and the remake is still available for
the Wii U if you can get your hands on one or once more be creative. It's
possible to play the GameCube disc on the Wii.

[howlong-waker]: https://howlongtobeat.com/game?id=13142

## The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass

Most games in this franchise are presented as isolated stories, with no real
observable continuity. Released for the Nintendo DS in 2007, _Phantom
Hourglass_ is an exception: it's a direct sequel to _The Wind Waker,_ starting
by showing Link traveling with a companion --- who shall not be named here ---
he met in the course of that game. Naturally, this game features the same
cell-shaded art style featured in the GameCube prequel, and we're all scared of
what it might've looked like if it had taken after _Twilight Princess_ instead.

{{< figure
  src="/media/cover-zelda-phantom-hourglass.webp"
  link="/media/cover-zelda-phantom-hourglass.webp"
  caption="Cover art for _The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass_"
>}}

Link's sailing the seas again, accompanied by some of the characters from _The
Wind Waker,_ when a ghost ship appears before them. How do we know it's a ghost
ship? It looks like one. That ghost ship abducts one of Link's friend, and Link
falls into the water as he desperately tries clinging to the ship that just
took his companion. He washes up at an island, where he meets a fairy, some old
dude, and later a legendary sailor by the name of Cpt. Linebeck --- who
honestly has the best theme track of video game history.

_Phantom Hourglass_ takes the sailing adventure from _The Wind Waker_ to the
Nintendo DS, with a similar overall soundtrack and art direction. The story is
not as profound (pretentious much, me?) as the prequel's, and the 3D graphics
of the Nintendo DS resemble the PS1. Also, as a replacement for using an analog
stick and buttons, since the DS doesn't have an analog stick, here's a
perfectly good touchscreen. Memorize these gestures and don't scratch that
screen too much!

If you can get past the controls, there's a portable version of the sailing
experience you got with _The Wind Waker_ before it. Sure, it looks funny at
times due to the graphics performance of the DS, and the soundtrack sounds very
compressed compared to what you heard on the GameCube, but it's not bad! You
get to scribble on the map for notes, something the game kinda pushes you to do
to make progress.

Onto our usual bullet points:

- The game makes creative use of Nintendo DS features like the built-in
  microphone, putting the DS in sleep mode, and the touchscreen for puzzles. On
  top of that, the game uses riddles for you to figure out what location to go
  to or look for.
- Small islands spaced by oceans gives the illusion of a bigger world crammed
  into a tiny set of dual screens. Puzzles are for the most part small enough
  you can turn your DS on, play for a little bit at a time, and put it to rest
  for another few hours.
- Boss battles make use of both screens, and change perspective a little bit to
  make it more cinematic as you figure out what to do to win the fight. It's
  genuinely impressive at times, given the DS doesn't seem to be as capable as
  it is.

In the end _Phantom Hourglass_ isn't anything amazing, but if you can get past
using the touchscreen for everything, it's actually quite fun. It's safe to say
it is, much like _Spirit Tracks,_ easily overlooked. Neither is particularly
challenging, except for the controls themselves. "It's pretty forgettable, but
still fun while it lasts," is a good summary for this game

_If you want to play it,_ the game was only ever released for the Nintendo DS,
with no remakes or ports ever coming out. The heavy use of DS features probably
means it'll never again see the light of day in another form. You're able to
play it on the Nintendo 3DS if you get the DS cartridge, due to
retrocompatibility.

## The Legend of Zelda: Spirit Tracks

Two years after the release of _Phantom Hourglass,_ a sequel set a century
after the game's events comes out. Also released for the Nintendo DS, _Spirit
Tracks_ takes place in New Hyrule, a land that settlers from the flooded Hyrule
arrived at a hundred years ago.

{{< figure
  src="/media/cover-zelda-spirit-tracks.webp"
  link="/media/cover-zelda-spirit-tracks.webp"
  caption="Cover art for _The Legend of Zelda: Spirit Tracks_"
>}}

That's right, our friends from _Phantom Hourglass_ found some land to call
their own, and very creatively decided to christen it New Hyrule. Since the
world isn't as flooded anymore, the boats that used to sail the seas gave way
to trains, and everyone's suddenly looking into becoming train engineers /
conductors, including our protagonist, Link. 

The Hylian monarchy that was pretty much absent in _The Wind Waker_ and
_Phantom Hourglass_ is back in full swing, and Princess Zelda personally
oversees Link's graduation into a fully capable conductor. Having graduated and
met a princess, Link is on his merry way home when the train tracks fizzle into
thin air! How could this happen?!

Complexity wise, this game is just like _Phantom Hourglass,_ but the padding
time spent in travel is now spent on train tracks laid out all around the land.
Your job is to restore them and keep them from disappearing. While nice for
train enthusiasts, in my humble opinion the tracks take away from the feeling
of adventure that free sailing in the ocean gave us in this game's prequels. It
doesn't feel like you can go wherever you like, and the excitement over riding
a train wanes quickly.

Once again you're using the touchscreen for most of your gameplay. Didn't like
it in _Phantom Hourglass?_ You're not going to like it here, as it is pretty
much the same thing. The game doesn't do a whole lot that its predecessor did
not, but it's still a fun game. The mostly unappealing --- to me, that is ---
controls and premise made me postpone playing this game for the longest time. I
finally got around to it circa 2011.

Enough yada yada, bullet points:

- The riddles of _Phantom Hourglass_ are no more, as far as I can remember! If
  you had trouble with those --- I did a couple times, I'm not proud of it ---
  you'll be happy to see that just as the train tracks, your way is laid out
  for you more clearly this time around.
- Great if you're a fan of trains, as long as you're not looking for a
  realistic train simulator. Enjoy navigating the overworld's tracks and making
  deliveries of various goods to different stations. You can also upgrade your
  train.
- If you liked the gameplay of _Phantom Hourglass,_ you'll like this one for
  sure!

I'm not the biggest fan of this game, that's for sure. It was annoying to
clear, I'll tell you that. I did it, though, and I do think it was worth my
time, despite not recommending it. Do the Nintendo DS's odd looking graphics
and the touchscreen controls not shoo you away? Then by all means, play the
game!

_In case you'll play it,_ the situation is the same as with _Phantom
Hourglass:_ this game was only ever released for the Nintendo DS, with no
remake or port in sight. Get a DS or a 3DS and the cartridge, or get creative!

## The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild

Ever since Nintendo showcased a tech demo for the Wii U that showed Link
fighting this big spider, everyone was extremely excited to see what kind of
Zelda game would grace our eyes within that generation. Nicknamed Zelda U, it
was 5 years in development, being scrapped completely once or twice, shown off
in a trailer that people like me are occasionally going back to just for the
chills it generated. Much like _Twilight Princess,_ this game marked the end
and the beginning of a console generation, being the last first-party title
released for the Wii U and perhaps the first title made for the Nintendo
Switch.

{{< figure
  src="/media/cover-zelda-breath-of-the-wild.webp"
  link="/media/cover-zelda-breath-of-the-wild.webp"
  caption="Cover art for _The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild_"
>}}

"Open your eyes," Link heard as he woke up from his slumber. Woah, this is an
odd place in which to sleep, he probably thought, and then he let the voice in
his head guide him outside the shrine he found himself in. Standing at the edge
of a cliff, he --- and of course, the player --- witnesses a stunning view,
tainted only by the dark aura surrounding Hyrule Castle. Well, it's not like
Link remembers anything about it.

_The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild_ is the most recent crown jewel of the
Zelda team. It was released to a lot of critical acclaim, and just like with
_Ocarina of Time_ in the Nintendo 64 era everyone's been trying to learn a
thing or two from Nintendo and replicate its success. It's a simple take on the
open world formula that other companies have implemented for decades with a ton
of complicated mechanics on top. All I want is to be thrown into the game and
pick everything up without reading a tutorial.

Critical acclaim is pretty much universal for this game, and the list of awards
is, well, I'm not sure because I'm not some kind of video games fanatic, but it
must be long or at least reasonably significant. It isn't without reason, of
course: while many will say the overworld is rather empty, there is no lack of
things to do in _Breath of the Wild,_ even after you think you fully completed
the game. Fans of this game pour hundreds of hours into it, playing with the
physics engine, replaying it in hero mode, and trying out the DLC. I'm told
there's a motorbike.

No spoilers, let's be brief:

- Out of all the games in the franchise, it's safe to say this one gives you
  the most freedom to explore and take on the obstacles that stand in your way,
  be it the weather, a mountain, or powerful enemies. You can set as many
  restrictions as you like for youself and still somehow manage to save the
  world, including jumping straight into the final boss once the game starts.
- The soundtrack, the ambience, the art style, they're all fantastic in this
  installment of _The Legend of Zelda._ You won't be left wanting in that
  regard, and the story is pretty neat as well. Whereas _Skyward Sword_ was a
  starting point to the series' chronology, this feels like an end point,
  uniting the separate timelines outlined by Nintendo.
- Your weapons break here. It's a problem if you grown attached to them and
  there's a shortage of the kind of weapon you want or need where you are.
  Nintendo will likely address this in the sequel, but... it's there, so keep
  it in mind.
- Perhaps the most relevant cause for divided opinions, _Breath of the Wild_
  doesn't really have dungeons in the classic Zelda fashion. If that's the
  reason you like the games so much, you might not like this one as much.

Guess that wasn't very brief in the end. Oh well. I played quite a bit of this
game on the Wii U, but didn't finish it until I got it on the Switch years
later. While it isn't the smoothest game --- framerate wise --- ever on either
console, I did perceive better performance on the Switch. Either way the game
is fantastic, and Wii U owners who played it didn't get a worse experience by
any stretch.

_Keen to give it a go?_ It's available for the Wii U and the Nintendo Switch.
Creative types with incredibly powerful machines are able to creatively play
the game on another platform, with mods and improvements scattered 'round the
'net. Not that I'm encouraging you to do that, far from it! Don't sue me,
Nintendo.

## The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past

Another installment hailed as one of the greatest games of all time, _The
Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past_ was released at the end of 1991 /
beginning of 1992 for the Super Nintendo. It was the third game ever made in
the franchise, and pretty much introduced what can only be called "the Zelda
formula": dungeon layout, dungeon items, enemies, the spin attack, Kakariko
Village, and so on were either created or reinvented here.

{{< figure
  src="/media/cover-zelda-a-link-to-the-past.webp"
  link="/media/cover-zelda-a-link-to-the-past.webp"
  caption="Cover art for _The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past_"
>}}

Wake up, Link! Wake up, your uncle just went outside in the pouring rain.
Follow him to the castle, that's where he went. Sneak in, save the princess,
and then just go through three dungeons, then maybe 7 or so more, collect a few
medallions here and there, travel to another [...] You get the picture.

While no laughing matter, the NES hadn't been explored or powerful enough to
pull off a game of this magnitude at the time the original _The Legend of
Zelda_ came out. The 16-bit sprite based 2D art style never really went out of
fashion, which contributed greatly to how wonderfully this game has aged. All
in all, it remains a satisfying title in the series, being somewhat iterated
upon in later 2D games such as _Link's Awakening_ and most famously _A Link
Between Worlds._

I don't have enough words for this, so bullet points, I guess:

- This game can be pretty challenging for people not used to 2D action games.
  If you're playing _The Legend of Zelda_ for the first time, while this is a
  great game, expect to feel a little challenged. If not by the more obscure
  puzzles, then at least by the final boss.
- The soundtrack is iconic, and was brought back time and time again in later
  titles in the series. It's perhaps a little hard to notice with the
  limitations of the sound chip, but listen to the _A Link to the Past Suite,_
  from _Symphony of the Goddesses._
- What _Ocarina of Time_ is to 3D games in the franchise, _A Link to the Past_
  is to the 2D titles. I don't think I need to say any more.

Trust me, I'm not going to write a lot here but the game is incredible.

_Should you wish to play it,_ you can play this title through the Nintendo 3DS
Virtual Console if you happen to have a 3DS from the New Nintendo 3DS family of
systems, or as a title in the SNES package for Nintendo Switch Online
subscribers on the Switch. It's available as a Virtual Console title for the
Wii, Wii U, and given it's from an old console, it's rather easy to get
creative.


## More to come in the future, I guess?

I thought this article would be pretty easy to write, but turns out I played
more games than I could remember facts for. Now I've grown weary after trying
to finish this for a few weeks --- I'm no writer, please don't judge me --- and
want to just commit it and be done with it for now.

Games that I want to add to this page or another one in the future:

- The Legend of Zelda: A Link Between Worlds
- The Legend of Zelda: Tri Force Heroes
- The Legend of Zelda: Four Swords Anniversary Edition
- The Legend of Zelda
- Zelda II: The Adventure of Link

I originally planned to add all of them here, save for _Adventure of Link,_
which I've never played. Here's my promise to myself to play it someday and
come here to bash on or praise it. If you read this entire piece, you must've
been really bored.
