content/_index.md, before:

---
draft: false
date: 2022-03-17

title: Nothing to see here, frankly speaking
subtitle: But I kinda want you to read it!

navigation:
  index: 0
  right: false
  title: Home

extensions: []
---

There's not a lot to see here, but feel free to look around. Hopefully there's
something of use to you on this website. I'll write about whatever comes to mind
_as_ it comes to mind, so if my words read like scattered thoughts, they
probably are.

_The website is a constant work in progress._ I'm not a front-end developer and
never will be. When JavaScript is present, it is meant to enhance the user
experience and will never be required to view the content. That means **no
content will be assembled using React.js, Vue, or the like.** There is nothing
wrong with those frameworks, I just don't believe they are necessary for a
website like this one.

## Source code, generation, hosting, etc.

The website is hosted on [GitHub Pages][ghpages], and the pages are generated
through [Hugo][hugo]. You can find the entire source code, including the GitHub
Actions workflow that publishes it to the `gh-pages` branch on [this
repository][ghrepo] on GitHub.

You can find repositories on [my GitHub profile][ghprofile] for other projects
of mine, be it silly things I've decided to put up online against my better
judgment or genuine work that I've put up online for people to use.

I try to make contributions to some of the projects that I use personally. One
of those is [xmonad/xmonad-contrib][ghxmcontrib], the repository containing user
submitted modules for use with [XMonad][ghxmonad], the purely functional window
manager for X11 written in Haskell. It's nice to think changes I've made, even
entire modules, are in use by other XMonad users.

[ghxmonad]: https://github.com/xmonad/xmonad
[ghxmcontrib]: https://github.com/xmonad/xmonad-contrib
[ghprofile]: https://github.com/d3adb5
[ghpages]: https://pages.github.com
[ghrepo]: https://github.com/d3adb5/website
[hugo]: https://gohugo.io

## What can I expect to see on this site?

Hopefully some tutorials, ramblings, and real life cases that I think bear some
relevance and could be the source of insight for other like minded people. For
example, it's no mystery that I like Git. This website is versioned with Git,
and _there will always be a link in the page footer to the last commit_ that
changed the page you are looking at. If you like Git, perhaps you'll find that
pretty cool!

I'll do my best to make these pages available in multiple languages, both as a
way to practice them and as a way to reach more people through them. If it all
goes according to plan, other people will be helping me out by reviewing the
different versions of the content in other languages.

## Send me mail, encrypted or not

If you wish to communicate with me, send a message to `me` at this domain. In
case you want to send encrypted messages:

```
ECC: 1D6680F97A6617F4D9B2A0F9D989443FD3ADB5C7 (preferred)
RSA: C3295D9E3A719FFE2EFD2EBB697797CED3ADB5C9
```

Commit message:

content(glob): add microblog page
Add a microblog page with accompanying shortcode and update navigation
bar. The extra content section reference is now relinquished to a mere
hyperlink in the index page.

content/_index.md, after:

---
draft: false
date: 2022-03-17

title: Nothing to see here, frankly speaking
subtitle: But I kinda want you to read it!

navigation:
  index: 0
  right: false
  title: Home

extensions: []
---

There's not a lot to see here, but feel free to look around. Hopefully there's
something of use to you on this website. I'll write about whatever comes to mind
_as_ it comes to mind, so if my words read like scattered thoughts, they
probably are.

_The website is a constant work in progress._ I'm not a front-end developer and
never will be. When JavaScript is present, it is meant to enhance the user
experience and will never be required to view the content. That means **no
content will be assembled using React.js, Vue, or the like.** There is nothing
wrong with those frameworks, I just don't believe they are necessary for a
website like this one.

## Source code, generation, hosting, etc.

The website is hosted on [GitHub Pages][ghpages], and the pages are generated
through [Hugo][hugo]. You can find the entire source code, including the GitHub
Actions workflow that publishes it to the `gh-pages` branch on [this
repository][ghrepo] on GitHub.

You can find repositories on [my GitHub profile][ghprofile] for other projects
of mine, be it silly things I've decided to put up online against my better
judgment or genuine work that I've put up online for people to use.

I try to make contributions to some of the projects that I use personally. One
of those is [xmonad/xmonad-contrib][ghxmcontrib], the repository containing user
submitted modules for use with [XMonad][ghxmonad], the purely functional window
manager for X11 written in Haskell. It's nice to think changes I've made, even
entire modules, are in use by other XMonad users.

[ghxmonad]: https://github.com/xmonad/xmonad
[ghxmcontrib]: https://github.com/xmonad/xmonad-contrib
[ghprofile]: https://github.com/d3adb5
[ghpages]: https://pages.github.com
[ghrepo]: https://github.com/d3adb5/website
[hugo]: https://gohugo.io

## What can I expect to see on this site?

Hopefully some tutorials, ramblings, and real life cases that I think bear some
relevance and could be the source of insight for other like minded people. For
example, it's no mystery that I like Git. This website is versioned with Git,
and _there will always be a link in the page footer to the last commit_ that
changed the page you are looking at. If you like Git, perhaps you'll find that
pretty cool!

I'll do my best to make these pages available in multiple languages, both as a
way to practice them and as a way to reach more people through them. If it all
goes according to plan, other people will be helping me out by reviewing the
different versions of the content in other languages.

There are also some [extra pages][extra] that don't fit anywhere else on the
site.

[extra]: {{< relref "extra/_index.md" >}}

## Send me mail, encrypted or not

If you wish to communicate with me, send a message to `me` at this domain. In
case you want to send encrypted messages:

```
ECC: 1D6680F97A6617F4D9B2A0F9D989443FD3ADB5C7 (preferred)
RSA: C3295D9E3A719FFE2EFD2EBB697797CED3ADB5C9
```
