content/about.md, before:

---
draft: false
date: 2023-02-20

title: About me and this website
subtitle: Who I am, what I do, what's the point of the website, etc.

navigation:
  index: 0
  right: true
  title: About

extensions: []
---

In this page I will try to put my best foot forward and highlight my qualities,
accomplishments, aspirations and goals to you, the reader. This is not out of
some narcissistic need to impress you, but rather to give you a better idea of
what I'm about.

Hello, I'm a _DevOps Engineer_ working with various technologies but with a
keen interest in _Kubernetes._ I'm also a bit of a _GNU/Linux enthusiast,_
having been using the operating system for over a decade now. My formal
education is comprised of unfinished bachelors degrees in both _Computer
Science_ and _Abstract Mathematics_ at prestigious universities in my home
country.

Here are a few things about me:

- _I'm Kubernetes certified:_ currently a certified administrator (CKA) and
  application developer (CKAD).
- _I'm AWS certified:_ currently a certified cloud practitioner (CCP), working
  slowly towards more certifications.
- I've had contributions accepted into staging branches of the Linux kernel's
  IIO subsystem.
- I've been using GNU/Linux for over a decade now, working on the command line
  for the most part.
- I speak _English, Portuguese,_ some _Spanish_ and a bit of _Japanese._
  Self-taught for the most part.
- In my current team, I'm the go-to person when people need help with
  Kubernetes, Git, Linux, and more.
- I enjoy karaoke, reading, and playing video games. I'm really good at
  _Tetris,_ and love _The Legend of Zelda._

Additionally, I'm a pretty fast learner. To illustrate: _in under a year_ I
came to hold three certifications, became a mentor in my team, was entrusted
with presenting to important foreign clients, and put in charge of a major
project that brought in over 12 new contracts from the same client. I was
promoted in quick succession, and am perceived as a good mentor and programming
pair by my peers.

## What about this website?

This website was never meant to be a portfolio, but if you read the more
technical pages and articles here, it could work as one! To make it easier for
potential employers to use it as such, I'll be making some changes to the
overall layout and design of the website. For privacy reasons, personal
information will be left out. Send me a PGP encrypted email if you want to
confirm this page really is mine.

Talk is cheap. Want to see the code? Head over to my [GitHub
profile][ghprofile].

[ghprofile]: https://github.com/d3adb5

Commit message:

content: update pages mentioning cks cert
Update a couple of pages now that I hold the Certified Kubernetes
Security Specialist certification.

content/about.md, after:

---
draft: false
date: 2023-02-20

title: About me and this website
subtitle: Who I am, what I do, what's the point of the website, etc.

navigation:
  index: 0
  right: true
  title: About

extensions: []
---

In this page I will try to put my best foot forward and highlight my qualities,
accomplishments, aspirations and goals to you, the reader. This is not out of
some narcissistic need to impress you, but rather to give you a better idea of
what I'm about.

Hello, I'm a _DevOps Engineer_ working with various technologies but with a
keen interest in _Kubernetes._ I'm also a bit of a _GNU/Linux enthusiast,_
having been using the operating system for over a decade now. My formal
education is comprised of unfinished bachelors degrees in both _Computer
Science_ and _Abstract Mathematics_ at prestigious universities in my home
country.

Here are a few things about me:

- _I'm Kubernetes certified:_ I hold all 3 Linux Foundation certifications for
  Kubernetes: _CKA, CKAD,_ and _CKS._
- _I'm AWS certified:_ currently a certified cloud practitioner (CCP), working
  slowly towards more certifications.
- I've had contributions accepted into staging branches of the Linux kernel's
  IIO subsystem.
- I've been using GNU/Linux for over a decade now, working on the command line
  for the most part.
- I speak _English, Portuguese,_ some _Spanish_ and a bit of _Japanese._
  Self-taught for the most part.
- In my current team, I'm the go-to person when people need help with
  Kubernetes, Git, Linux, and more.
- I enjoy karaoke, reading, and playing video games. I'm really good at
  _Tetris,_ and love _The Legend of Zelda._

Additionally, I'm a pretty fast learner. To illustrate: _in under a year_ I
came to hold three certifications, became a mentor in my team, was entrusted
with presenting to important foreign clients, and put in charge of a major
project that brought in over 12 new contracts from the same client. I was
promoted in quick succession, and am perceived as a good mentor and programming
pair by my peers.

## What about this website?

This website was never meant to be a portfolio, but if you read the more
technical pages and articles here, it could work as one! To make it easier for
potential employers to use it as such, I'll be making some changes to the
overall layout and design of the website. For privacy reasons, personal
information will be left out. Send me a PGP encrypted email if you want to
confirm this page really is mine.

Talk is cheap. Want to see the code? Head over to my [GitHub
profile][ghprofile].

[ghprofile]: https://github.com/d3adb5
