content/glob.md, before:

---
draft: false
date: 2025-10-27

title: Personal microblog without a character limit
subtitle: Stolen from a website belonging to someone I admire

navigation:
  index: 2
  right: false
  title: Glob
---

From the Library Functions Manual:

> The `glob()` function searches for all the pathnames matching pattern
> according to the rules used by the shell (see `glob(7)`). No tilde expansion
> or parameter substitution is done; if you want these, use `word‐exp(3)`.

Here you will find ponderances, ideas, cool things I found, plans I'll likely
never execute, and other assorted bits and pieces that don't quite fit
elsewhere on the website nor are lengthy enough to warrant a full article.
Consider it the *more personal, human, and admittedly ugly* side of my writing.

To those used to the technical writing found elsewhere on this website, this
may present a stark contrast.

---

{{< microblog date="2025-10-27 - 01:30" >}}

*To the person with whom I recently reconnected,*

I doubt you are reading this. If anything, I hope you aren't, for I've gone out
of my way to avoid linking my different online presences together. However, if
for whatever reason you scoured the Internet looking for me and stumbled upon
this website, know that I appreciate the effort and find it endearing.

Reconnecting with you has been a bittersweet experience. I did tell you this,
but more than reconnecting with you, it feels like I am reconnecting with
someone I used to be. Life has changed me in many ways, some for the better,
some for the worse. I'm at a strange point where I'm not entirely sure what
direction to take, and speaking to you has thrown me into a tailspin of
nostalgia and introspection.

I'm glad I sent you that text. *I'm happy that you replied,* and it still
surprises me how friendly you were to me after everything that transpired and
the time that has passed. I hope we can keep in touch, even if only
sporadically. You were an important part of my life once, and I'd like to be a
part of yours again, even if only as a distant acquaintance.

Only time will tell where this leads us. For now, I want to express what I
won't bother texting you in short bursts:

- Your website inspired this page. Sorry I copied the idea, it was *precisely*
  what I was looking for.
- Your writing style remains something I admire. Thank you for publishing so
  many of your thoughts.
- Life is difficult and complicated. I'm sorry for the hardships you've
  endured.
- It's refreshing to see how much individuality you've retained and developed.
- The records of our past interactions bring a smile to my face, and have given
  me motivation to preserve history.

I really liked you, y'know? You may not have thought me sincere, but I was.

{{< /microblog >}}

Commit message:

content(glob): add snippet about mathjax
Add a little snippet about using MathJax on this website.

content/glob.md, after:

---
draft: false
date: 2025-10-27

title: Personal microblog without a character limit
subtitle: Stolen from a website belonging to someone I admire

navigation:
  index: 2
  right: false
  title: Glob

extensions:
  - mathjax
---

From the Library Functions Manual:

> The `glob()` function searches for all the pathnames matching pattern
> according to the rules used by the shell (see `glob(7)`). No tilde expansion
> or parameter substitution is done; if you want these, use `word‐exp(3)`.

Here you will find ponderances, ideas, cool things I found, plans I'll likely
never execute, and other assorted bits and pieces that don't quite fit
elsewhere on the website nor are lengthy enough to warrant a full article.
Consider it the *more personal, human, and admittedly ugly* side of my writing.

To those used to the technical writing found elsewhere on this website, this
may present a stark contrast.

---

{{< microblog date="2025-10-27 - 11:11" >}}

I made it so I can enable MathJax on a per-page basis on this website. It's
really cool to be able to write mathematical notation. I used to use Pandoc to
convert Markdown with inlined LaTeX to PDF for notes and assignments back in
university, so this is a nice throwback to those days.

Look at it:

$$
\mathbbm{E}(X) = \sum_{x \in \mathcal{X}} x \cdot \mathbbm{P}(x)
\longrightarrow
\mathbbm{E}(f(X)) = \sum_{y \in f(\mathcal{X})} y \cdot \mathbbm{P}(y)
$$

Not that it'll get much meaningful use, but it's nice to have the option.

{{< /microblog >}}

{{< microblog date="2025-10-27 - 01:30" >}}

*To the person with whom I recently reconnected,*

I doubt you are reading this. If anything, I hope you aren't, for I've gone out
of my way to avoid linking my different online presences together. However, if
for whatever reason you scoured the Internet looking for me and stumbled upon
this website, know that I appreciate the effort and find it endearing.

Reconnecting with you has been a bittersweet experience. I did tell you this,
but more than reconnecting with you, it feels like I am reconnecting with
someone I used to be. Life has changed me in many ways, some for the better,
some for the worse. I'm at a strange point where I'm not entirely sure what
direction to take, and speaking to you has thrown me into a tailspin of
nostalgia and introspection.

I'm glad I sent you that text. *I'm happy that you replied,* and it still
surprises me how friendly you were to me after everything that transpired and
the time that has passed. I hope we can keep in touch, even if only
sporadically. You were an important part of my life once, and I'd like to be a
part of yours again, even if only as a distant acquaintance.

Only time will tell where this leads us. For now, I want to express what I
won't bother texting you in short bursts:

- Your website inspired this page. Sorry I copied the idea, it was *precisely*
  what I was looking for.
- Your writing style remains something I admire. Thank you for publishing so
  many of your thoughts.
- Life is difficult and complicated. I'm sorry for the hardships you've
  endured.
- It's refreshing to see how much individuality you've retained and developed.
- The records of our past interactions bring a smile to my face, and have given
  me motivation to preserve history.

I really liked you, y'know? You may not have thought me sincere, but I was.

{{< /microblog >}}
