content/lorem.md, before:

+++
title = "Lorem ipsum"
date  = 2022-02-05

navTitle = "lorem"

draft = false
+++

Dolor sit amet, consetetur sadipscing elitr, sed diam nonumy eirmod tempor
invidunt ut labore et dolore magna aliquyam erat, sed diam voluptua. At vero eos
et accusam et justo duo dolores et ea rebum. Stet clita kasd gubergren, no sea
takimata sanctus est Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet.

| Bucket   | Thingamajiggu | Another Thing | Something Else   |
|:---------|:--------------|:--------------|:-----------------|
| Coconuts | Water         | Is            | Very             |
| Good     | Indeed        | This          | is               |
| an       | amazing       | table         | don't you think? |

And here we have a blockquote:

> Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consetetur sadipscing elitr, sed diam nonumy
> eirmod tempor invidunt ut labore et dolore magna aliquyam erat, sed diam
> voluptua. At vero eos et accusam et justo duo dolores et ea rebum. Stet clita
> kasd gubergren, no sea takimata sanctus est Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet.

Things with the stuff!

- Things and things and things and...
- Stuff and stuff and stuff and...
- Many things!

Many things indeed. Now that that's over with, we're going to look at an ordered
list. Here we go:

1. Something like this, y'know?
2. Can be pretty cool, right?
3. I think you should agree with me that it is.
4. Otherwise...

We're going to have **some trouble.**

It's pretty cool, innit?

Commit message:

chore: add subtitle to lorem ipsum page & refactor
Add a subtitle, add some headings, and update alignment rules on the
table in the page containing lorem ipsum. This page will soon be
removed, as it's used solely to preview what the theme will yield.

content/lorem.md, after:

+++
title = "Lorem ipsum"
date  = 2022-02-05

subtitle = "And the art of trying to make this work"
navTitle = "lorem"

draft = false
+++

Dolor sit amet, consetetur sadipscing elitr, sed diam nonumy eirmod tempor
invidunt ut labore et dolore magna aliquyam erat, sed diam voluptua. At vero eos
et accusam et justo duo dolores et ea rebum. Stet clita kasd gubergren, no sea
takimata sanctus est Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet.

| Bucket   | Thingamajiggu | Another Thing | Something Else   |
|---------:|:-------------:|:--------------|:-----------------|
| Coconuts | Water         | Is            | Very             |
| Good     | Indeed        | This          | is               |
| an       | amazing       | table         | don't you think? |

And here we have a blockquote:

> Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consetetur sadipscing elitr, sed diam nonumy
> eirmod tempor invidunt ut labore et dolore magna aliquyam erat, sed diam
> voluptua. At vero eos et accusam et justo duo dolores et ea rebum. Stet clita
> kasd gubergren, no sea takimata sanctus est Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet.

Things with the stuff!

- Things and things and things and...
- Stuff and stuff and stuff and...
- Many things!

Many things indeed. Now that that's over with, we're going to look at an ordered
list.

## ordered lists

Here we go:

1. Something like this, y'know?
2. Can be pretty cool, right?
3. I think you should agree with me that it is.
4. Otherwise...

We're _going_ to have **some trouble.**

### another inner heading

It's pretty cool, innit?
